Our mission is to provide a safe, loving environment for abandoned babies, and to promote the cause of adoption.
The La Lucia Baby House is a registered NPO 164/184; PBO 930051927; and BEE certified.

History of baby house
History
The La Lucia Baby House was launched in 2013 after Sheila visited other crisis homes and began to feel stirred about the orphan crisis in South Africa.
She was inspired by Ruth Grobler of Sinakekele and Kim Brown and Leanne Lorrance, crisis parents at HOLAH (House of Love and Hope) and began to consider the possibility of becoming a licensed crisis care home.

On June 17, 2013 Skip and Sheila opened the doors of the La Lucia Baby House under the NGO of The Peace Agency.

After successfully operating with the help of the Peace Agency for two years, The La Lucia Baby House registered its own NGO and became totally independent in October of 2015.

//skip and sheila (add pictures)
Skip And Sheila
The first thing you will notice about Skip and Sheila is that they speak with a strange, yet familiar accent. It’s the result of being born and raised in the USA but living in South Africa for 26 years. They came to South Africa in 1989 to work with Youth for Christ in Durban. In 1997, Skip moved from YfC to become a pastor at Westville Baptist Church. In 2007, one more change happened when both Skip and Sheila went on staff at Grace Family Church; Skip as the Creative Arts Pastor and Sheila as the Senior Graphic Designer. Skip continues his work at Grace while Sheila is now a full-time house mother at The La Lucia Baby House. Skip and Sheila are parents to three amazing boys, two gorgeous daughters-in-law, and three beautiful grandchildren, all of whom currently live in the US.

What We Do
It is estimated that there are 3500 babies abandoned in South Africa every year. We are a transitional home designed to love and to care for up to six babies at a time. The babies are all placed in our care by the Durban Magistrates Court with the help of a social worker IMG_2035from Child Welfare Durban and District.

Once the babies are placed in our care, the appointed social worker will begin the process of looking for the child’s family in the case of abandonment, or counseling with the birth mother if she is known to them. Only once all effort has been completed to place the child back into its birth family will the baby be eligible for adoption.

Once the child is eligible for adoption the social worker will place them with a family that has been screened and approved for adoption.

Our babies live with us until there is a permanent placement, anywhere from four months to two years. We care for all of their needs during that time including any medical care that is necessary.
